Australian Izaac Stubblety-Cook came from behind to take out gold in the men's 200m breaststroke final.

In third position at the 50m turn, Stubblety-Cook stormed home to set a new Olympic record time of 2:06.38.

Silver went to Dutch swimmer Arno Kamminga and bronze went to Finland's Matti Mattsson.

The 22-year-old, who trains in Brisbane, swam a blistering back half of the race, recovering from a sluggish start that saw him in sixth at the first turn.

It is Australia's seventh gold medal of the Games and its fifth victory in the pool.

Kyle Chalmers embraces Caeleb Dressel after epic 100m freestyle final
Kyle Chalmers finished second in an epic men's 100m freestyle final, just pipped on the wall by American Caeleb Dressel.

A man hugs another man wearing a black swimming cap
Australia's Kyle Chalmers hugs Caeleb Dressel.(Getty Images: Maddie Meyer)
The pair shared a hug immediately after the race, further showcasing the respect held between rival athletes at the Olympic Games.

Chalmers recorded a time of 47.08 seconds, finishing just 0.06s behind the American, while the ROC's Kliment Kolesnikov finished in third with a time of 47:44.

Chalmers told Channel Seven he did everything he could to defend his title.

"I left absolutely everything in the pool, and did everything I could to do it for my country," he said. 

"I gave everything I could. But you know, to win gold in 2016, come back and win silver, you know, it is great."

Read more about the Tokyo Olympics:
How do you create an Olympic atmosphere with no crowds?
Dean Boxall is the talk of the Olympics, but who is the coach who gyrated his way to fame?
Japanese women celebrate German gymnasts' full body suits at Olympic Games
China breaks world record in women's 4x200m freestyle relay
Three women wearing red tops and smiling
China wins the women's 4x200m freestyle relay final and sets a new world record at the Tokyo Olympics.(Getty Images: Adam Davy)
China has set a new world record time in the women's 4x200m freestyle relay final, holding off a fast-finishing USA to claim gold in the last final of the day in the pool.

Junxuan Yang, Yufei Zhang, Bingjie Li and Muhan Tang led from the start and although Australia took the lead midway through the race, Bingjie Li held on to win the gold in a record time of 7:40.33.

Keep up to date with the latest Tokyo Olympics news
Close-up shot of two logos, one with the five Olympic rings, the other with the Paralympic symbol.
The Tokyo Olympics have begun. Stay up to date with all the action from the Games.

Read more
American Katie Ledecky closed the margin late with a strong final 200m to push the US team into second place for silver.

Australia claimed the bronze medal with Ariarne Titmus explaining to Channel Seven just how quick the race was.

"We were under our previous world record, so it was still a good swim from us," she said.

"I mean, I would've liked to have done a bit more for the team. I feel like I should've been better. But it's what you can do on the day and it's been a big couple of days, so I'm happy to come away on the podium."

Emma McKeon, Cate Campbell into 100m freestyle final
A woman wearing a yelloe swimming cap in the water
Australia's Emma McKeon is through to the women's 100m freestyle final at the Tokyo Olympics.(Getty Images: Michael Kappeler)
Both our Aussie representatives will swim in the final for the women's 100m freestyle after convincing swims in the semis.

Cate Campbell came in a close second in the first semi behind Siobhan Haughey from Hong Kong, and Emma McKeon asserted her dominance to come in first in the second semi.

They'll line up in tomorrow's final at about 11:59am.

Huge win for Australia in opening rugby sevens game
Australia's Maddison Levi storms past a Japanese opponent in rugby sevens at the Tokyo Olympics
Maddison Levi scored two tries against Japan in Australias opening match of rugby sevens at the Tokyo Olympics.(Getty Images: Dan Mullan)
The Australian women's rugby seven's team have made the perfect start to their Olympics campaign, beating Japan 48-0 in their first pool match.

Emma Tonegato led the way for Australia with three tries, while Demi Hayes and Maddison Levi added two each.

Canada, who's also tipped to go far in the competition, notched a big win earlier, defeating Brazil 33-0, while two-time reigning world champions New Zealand smashed Kenya 29-7.

Australia is back in action again against China at 6:30pm.

 Olympics essentials:
Your daily guide
The latest medal tally
The must-see events
Saya Sakakibara and Lauren Reynolds qualify for BMX semi-finals
A woman wearing yellow rides a bike in the air
Australia's Saya Sakakibara is through to the semi-finals of the women's BMX racing.(Getty Images: Ezra Shaw)
Two Australians will compete in tomorrow's BMX racing semi-finals.

The quarter-final rounds began today in both the men's and women's events, with Aussie pair Lauren Reynolds and Saya Sakakibara both making it through to the final 16 of the women's competition.

Both riders needed a good result in their third and final heat to progress, with a first place for Sakakibara and fourth for Reynolds enough to get both through.

In the men's competition, Anthony Dean missed out on a semi-final place.

South Africa upsets Germany in men's hockey
A group of men wearing yellow shirts and shorts walk together on a blue court
South Africa's men's hockey team cause the upset of the competition so far with a win over Germany at the Tokyo Olympics.(Getty Images: Buda Mendes)
South Africa has caused one of the upsets of the men's hockey competition so far, defeating powerhouse Germany 4-3.

The 14th ranked side in the world came from behind to get the better of Germany — the sixth-ranked side in the world — in their pool B match earlier today.

Mustaphaa Cassiem scored in the 48th minute for South Africa, with the other three goals coming from Matthew Guise-Brown, Craig Keenan, Nic Spooner.

The win means the South African side still has a chance to reach the competition quarter-finals. 



Posted 5h ago5 hours ago
Share

Related Stories
Kyle Chalmers wins 100m silver, falling agonisingly short in quest for back-to-back gold
Man wearing white sweater with medal, man wearing yellow sweater with medal
Stubblety-Cook storms to Olympic breaststroke gold
Izaac Stubblety-Cook celebrates with his gold medal
Australia wins bronze in shock Olympic women's 4x200m relay upset

China's actions in the massive Microsoft Exchange email server hack were akin to someone propping open the doors of people's homes for criminals to enter, the head of Australia's cyber warfare agency has said.

Key points:
Intelligence agencies say China intentionally propped open a door in Microsoft Exchange's system that allowed criminals to exploit the company
Agencies warn without more power to intervene during cyber attacks, it is harder for them to prevent additional victims
They say early information on an attack saved aged care facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic last year
Telltale signs of how the attack was carried out enabled Australia to join an international movement to attribute the internet hack to China, according to the Australian Signals Directorate's director-general, Rachel Noble.

Ms Noble said there were a number of characteristics about the hack that satisfied officials "from a technical point of view" that China could be blamed.

"It would be like if houses and buildings had faulty locks on the doors," Ms Noble told federal parliament's intelligence and security committee.

"When the Chinese government became aware of those faulty locks on the doors, they went in and they propped all those doors open.

"What then happened was that there was opportunity for all sorts of criminals, other state actors, you name it, to pour in behind all those propped open doors and get into your house or your building."

What are the consequences for China's hacking?
A graphic of different world leaders overlaid on a computer motherboard edited to resemble the Chinese flag.
A global coalition says China's hacking campaigns must stop, but pointing the finger over January's Microsoft Exchange attack seems the only consequence for now.

Read more
Ms Noble said there was a massive threat posed by the attack.

"We estimate in Australia that probably around 70,000 entities, companies, businesses in Australia, were using the Microsoft Exchange Server," Ms Noble said.

"So it's an attack at a scale that is extremely large and significant."

Chinese officials have labelled the attribution as "fabricated", accusing the United States of having "ganged up with its allies to make unwarranted accusations against Chinese cybersecurity".

Push for 'urgent' powers to take over company response during an attack
The debate over attributing the Microsoft Exchange hack came during an inquiry into new legislation that would give the nation's intelligence agencies greater powers to intercept cyber attacks.

The bill, proposed by the federal government, would allow officials to take over a company's computer networks as they were coming under attack.

Home Affairs secretary Mike Pezzullo warned the threat of cyber attacks targeting critical infrastructure, such as power grids or major companies, was "overwhelming".

"The clock is ticking," he told the committee.

A man wearing a suit and glasses gestures with both hands as he talks.
Home Affairs secretary Mike Pezzullo warned that Australia could no longer wait to give intelligence agencies power to intervene during a cyber attack.(ABC News: Ian Cutmore)
"The possibility of us waking up tomorrow and to be in the grip of such an attack was already last year, the year before.

"The urgency of this legislation frankly is, I would think, self-evident."

The legislation has been criticised as giving government agencies far too much power to take over networks, and imposing too strict a regulatory burden on companies.

Companies have expressed concerns they would be directed not to act: for instance, being told not to pay a ransom, which could lead to further harm.

"These are foundational reforms for Australia and will have substantial implications for both our security but also our ongoing economic prosperity," the Business Council of Australia said in a submission.

Mr Pezzullo told the committee the legislation would not give agencies the keys to any computer network at any time, and there would be a "dialogue" with companies.

"If you can actually keep this malware out, if you can actually defeat this actor through some magic of this network, tell us," he said.

ASD intervention saved aged care facilities during Victoria lockdown
The Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC), which operates within ASD, said there had already been examples of cyber attacks where it prevented more victims by getting early information.

The ACSC's head, Abigail Bradshaw, said aged care facilities in Victoria had been hit by a ransomware attack at the height of coronavirus lockdowns in 2020, and warnings had been issued to other facilities as a result of cooperation from the affected homes.

Ms Bradshaw also cited a cyber attack on media giant Nine, which crippled the network's broadcast and publishing operations.

"They were in a position to actually pass us technical artefacts, and we were able to use the full range of ASD intelligence capabilities to determine the next victims within hours of receiving those technical artefacts," Ms Bradshaw said

ASD boss Ms Noble previously raised concerns about a large company refusing to cooperate during an attack and said the new laws, which would force companies to notify them of an attack, could be used to prevent additional victims.

"What it enables us to do, which is additive to the nation's security that any company can't do, is to piece that input from that company with a similar input from four other companies," Ms Noble said.

"At which point we will be able to derive a pattern to sometimes alert and notify other organisations in a sector who might be about to be hit, but haven't been yet."